[Music]
ten ways to lose weight when diets don't
work according to a 2010 study conducted
by a group of scientists from the
leading universities in the u.s. only
20% of people manage to lose excess
weight effectively
the plateau effect is to blame this is
when after an insignificant weight loss
the process stops despite your best
efforts before you learn how to overcome
this problem click the subscription
button and ring the notification bell to
join us on the bright side of life 10
take up resistance training you may have
heard that resistance training is less
effective for weight loss than cardio
training but that's not exactly true if
we talk about a long term process as
soon as you start to lose weight in
earnest your metabolic rate slows down
paradoxically the more weight you shed
the fewer calories you'll burn
resistance training speeds up your
metabolic rate and prevents your body
from entering energy-saving mode one
more benefit of resistance training is
that it retains a muscle mass which
positively influences the number of
calories you burn in a day
the most effective method is to combine
resistance training and eating protein
after your workout 9 change the caloric
value of your food throughout the week
when you're dieting your body gets used
to the reduced amount of food you allow
yourself to eat as a result it cuts down
on your energy expenditure let's have a
look at this vicious circle your body
adapts to new conditions but at the same
time it doesn't want to get rid of its
fat storage saving it for a rainy day
you start to despair and cut down on
calories even more your body is sure
that hard times have arrived and stops
burning calories altogether but there's
a way to deceive your body you can apply
calorie cycling choose two days a week
on which you'll consume no more than
1000 or 1200 calories and eat the bare
minimum of carbs on the other days you
can allow yourself 1500 calories
remember that this is an approximate
number a recommended calorie intake
depends on many factors age gender
health conditions and so on if you use
calorie cycling your metabolic rate
won't slow down on the contrary it will
create the calorie deficit that's
necessary for losing excess weight 8
distinguish a real weight-loss plateau
from an imaginary one when you start
dieting your body loses excess water
during the first days as a result your
scales display some really pleasing
numbers but then the process seems to
stop in fact it just significantly slows
down but people believe that they've hit
a weight loss plateau they lose
enthusiasm and call off their diet in
truth a healthy weight loss process
cannot be fast by using physical
training or a special diet meal plan you
need to create a serious deficit of
calories and this takes time thus arm
yourself with patience and try to avoid
stepping on your scales more often than
once a week 7 increase the amount of
proteins and vegetables you consume to
speed up your weight loss process you
can also cut back on carbohydrates and
increase your protein intake low-carb
diets are highly effective if you want
to get rid of excess weight they make
you feel full and reduce hunger
plus they make your body produce ketones
organic compounds famous for decreasing
appetite but if you consume a lot of
carbs they provoke insulin spikes these
spikes make you feel much hungrier and
encourage your body to store fat that's
why you should try to replace products
rich in carbs with foods that contain
more protein protein boosts your
metabolic rate and it also prevents your
body from losing muscle mass which often
occurs during weight loss 6 alternate
different sets of exercises the
thousands of years that people have
spent attempting to survive have taught
your body one simple thing to save its
energy resources just like with food
your body gets used to your training
regimen so after several weeks of
similar exercises your progress will
come to naught there's only one way to
solve this problem try to change your
training program once a month alternate
yoga with Pilates Pilates with step
aerobics and step aerobics with
resistance training 5 occasionally spoil
yourself with tasty food your neuronal
connections should be functioning
correctly if you want to resist the
temptation to eat but when a person has
been dieting for a long time their brain
starts to send them powerful urges too
much on something tasty as a result you
start to believe that a cookie or a bar
of chocolate can bring you much more
pleasure than it actually will
this fact makes nutritionists insist on
including modest portions of forbidden
foods in your diet when you occasionally
spoil yourself with small amounts of
your favorite foods you prevent the
massive break doubts that sabotage your
weight-loss journey for remember to
reevaluate your calorie consumption the
number of calories you need to support
or decrease your weight depends not only
on your physical activity but on your
body mass as well if an overweight
person consumes 2,000 calories a day
they will get slimmer but if the same
number of calories is eaten by a skinny
person they will effectively gain weight
this means that you need to re-evaluate
your calorie intake after every 11
pounds you lose this is crucial for
further weight loss 3 make sure you
sleep enough sleep is super important
not only for your mental physical and
emotional health but also for effective
weight loss when you don't get enough
sleep your metabolic rate drops in
addition your hormone levels change
which leads to increased appetite and
it's resulting fat storage your main
task is to create all the conditions
necessary for quality sleep your night
rest shouldn't be shorter than 7 to 8
hours
to count your calories according to
researchers people who are trying to
lose weight on their own without the
professional help of a nutritionist
stopped controlling their diet after
several weeks they sincerely believe
that they were continuing to eat as they
had been as a result they not only
failed to lose excess weight but even
gained extra pounds people tend to
underestimate the amount and caloric
value of the food they consume
this was proved by a study conducted in
1992 by researchers from Columbia
University College of Physicians and
Surgeons in New York the obese people
who participated in the study stated
that they consumed 1,200 calories a day
but a scrupulous analysis of what they
ate during a two-week period showed that
they actually consumed twice as many
calories if you manage to count the
number of calories and macronutrients
fat carbs and protein you consume every
day you'll get precise information about
your intake this data will help you
modify your diet if needed
besides the very act of recording
exactly what you eat and in what
quantities can motivate you and
encourage your weight loss process one
consider the peculiarities of your body
remember that when you're trying to get
rid of excess weight you shouldn't rely
solely on your scales to inform you
about your progress first of all the
human body has the ability to retain
water this happens when you drink a lot
and consume a lot of salty products
alcohol and even dairy products secondly
your primary purpose is not weight loss
but fat loss if you have a regular
physical workouts your muscles are
growing you should take into
consideration that muscle tissue is
heavier and denser than fat but at the
same time it occupies less space in your
body if your scales show the same result
every time you step on them even after
several weeks of hard training try a
tape measure the chances are high that
you've been building muscle and losing
fat all this time also check how your
clothes fit loose jeans will be the
perfect motivation to proceed with your
efforts
have you ever experienced a weight loss
plateau write about it in the comments
section below remember to give us a
thumbs up share this video with your
friends and join us on the bright side
of life
[Music]